IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 73, NO. 7, JULY 2025

5247

Beam Management in Low Earth Orbit Satellite
Communication With Handover Frequency Control
and Satellite-Terrestrial Spectrum Sharing
Jianfeng Zhu , Yaohua Sun , and Mugen Peng

Abstract— To achieve ubiquitous wireless connectivity, low
earth orbit (LEO) satellite networks have drawn much attention.
However, effective beam management is challenging due to
time-varying cell load, high dynamic network topology, and complex interference situations. In this paper, under inter-satellite
handover frequency and satellite-terrestrial/inter-beam interference constraints, we formulate a practical beam management
problem, aiming to maximize the long-term service satisfaction
of cells. Particularly, Lyapunov framework is leveraged to equivalently transform the primal problem into multiple single epoch
optimization problems, where virtual queue stability constraints
replace inter-satellite handover frequency constraints. Since each
single epoch problem is NP-hard, we further decompose it into
three subproblems, including inter-satellite handover decision,
beam hopping design and satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing.
First, a proactive inter-satellite handover mechanism is developed
to balance handover frequency and satellite loads. Subsequently,
a beam hopping design algorithm is presented based on conflict
graphs to achieve interference mitigation among beams, and
then a flexible satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing algorithm
is designed to satisfy the demands of beam cells and improve
spectral efficiency. Simulation results show that our proposal significantly improves service satisfaction compared with baselines,
where the average data queue length of beam cells is reduced by
over 20% with affordable handover frequency.
Index Terms— Low earth orbit satellite, beam management,
inter-satellite handover, interference mitigation, spectrum sharing.

I. I NTRODUCTION
N LAST decade, rapid technical developments have facilitated the deployments and applications of LEO satellite
networks [1], [2], [3]. Although LEO satellite networks
can provide seamless service, effective beam management
is highly challenging. Specifically, due to uneven traffic

I

Received 21 May 2024; revised 18 October 2024; accepted 4 December
2024. Date of publication 12 December 2024; date of current version 17 July
2035. This work was supported in part by the National Key R&D Program of
China under Grant 2022YFB2902600, in part by the National Natural Science
Foundation of China under Grants 62371071, in part by BUPT Excellent Ph.D.
Students Foundation CX20243075, and in part by the Young Elite Scientists
Sponsorship Program by the China Association for Science and Technology
under Grant 2021QNRC001. The associate editor coordinating the review of
this article and approving it for publication was A. Maaref. (Corresponding
author: Yaohua Sun.)
The authors are with the State Key Laboratory of Networking and Switching
Technology, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing
100876, China (e-mail: jianfeng@bupt.edu.cn; sunyaohua@bupt.edu.cn;
pmg@bupt.edu.cn).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TCOMM.2024.3516479

distributions, limited radio resource, and high dynamic topology, LEO satellite beam management need to deal with
frequent inter-satellite handover [4], unsatisfied capacity by
beam hopping [5], and severe inter-beam interference. Meanwhile, considering the shortage of available spectrum resource,
satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing is a promising direction
[6].
A. Related Works
1) Inter-Satellite Handover: Low handover frequency can
reduce signaling overhead and provide continuous service
experience. In [7], users monitor the received signal strength,
and handover procedure is performed when the measured
signal strength is lower than a certain threshold. However,
it is intractable to judge appropriate handover occasions
because near-far distance effects are insignificant in LEO satellite networks [4]. Therefore, several other handover criteria
are proposed, including longest remaining service time [8],
shortest distance [9] and load balance [10]. In contrast to
adopting single criterion with partial information for handover,
Zhang et al. in [11] develop a multi-attribute handover decision
scheme based on entropy by combining multiple handover
criteria. Although the above works can reduce handover frequency, handover decisions are mainly made by users with
local observations about LEO satellite networks, which may
result in handover to a satellite with high load. To overcome
this issue, a centralized handover strategy is proposed in [12]
by searching the minimum cost and maximum flow in a binary
graph between satellites and users. Wang et al. in [4] propose a
conditional handover triggering mechanism to enhance service
continuity, where gateway stations reallocate serving satellites
for all users when network topology changes. The simulation results show that a centralized handover strategy with
proactive handover triggering mechanism can improve service continuity. Unfortunately, since current inter-satellite
handover mechanisms are only triggered when network
topology changes, they are shortsighted and cannot adapt
to time-varying traffic arrival, which may lead to load
imbalance among satellites and degrade network throughput.
2) Beam Hopping: With inevitable challenges caused by
uneven transmission demand distribution and potential interbeam interference, industry and academia have adopted

0090-6778 © 2024 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artificial intelligence
and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

5248

beam hopping as a promising approach to fully utilize
time-frequency resource and support inter-beam spectrum
sharing. Overall, beam hopping research can be divided into
two categories, including intra-satellite beam hopping strategies [13], [14] and inter-satellite cooperative beam hopping
strategies [5], [15]. Authors in [13] propose a swap matching
algorithm to reduce the gap between traffic requests and
capacity provision. In [14], beam cells are dynamically divided
into multiple clusters with comparable loads, and then a beam
hopping strategy is developed under inter-cluster interference
isolation. Compared to scenarios with a single satellite, intersatellite beam hopping design not only requires intra-satellite
interference mitigation but also needs to consider inter-satellite
interference. To this end, a multi-satellite beam hopping design
approach is developed in [5] by intra-satellite beam hopping
and additional inter-satellite interference coordinating, where
serving relationships between satellites and beam cells are
determined by a load balance method. In [15], an enhanced
heuristic method for beam hopping is developed in dual
satellite cooperative scenarios, which contributes to improving spectral efficiency. Although current beam hopping
research can obtain a high service satisfaction, their beam
pattern design mainly depends on instantaneous transmission demand without considering potential inter-satellite
handover and interference to terrestrial networks.
3) Satellite-Terrestrial Spectrum Sharing: Due to limited
spectrum resource, LEO satellite networks may be deficient
to offer sufficient capacity to hop-spot areas via its owner
spectrum. Since terrestrial base stations sometimes operate
in low-load states, spectrum sharing between LEO satellite
and terrestrial networks is an attractive solution to tackle the
spectrum shortage problem. A protection area based method is
adopted in [16] to achieve spatial isolation between satellites
and terrestrial networks. Moreover, authors in [6] evaluate
satellite-terrestrial interference and then calculate the radius
of protected area for the coexistence of satellite and terrestrial networks. Unfortunately, interference avoidance methods
in [6], [16] cause coverage holes and disrupt communication
services in protected area. For seamless coverage, Du et al.
in [17] adopt a flexible spectrum sharing strategy based
on a second-priced auction mechanism between a satellite
and several base stations, achieving high data rate. In [18],
a spectrum sharing method is designed by jointly allocating
spectrum and power resource for satellite-terrestrial networks.
Although the above works provide feasible solutions for
satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing and improve network
capacity by satellite-terrestrial interference mitigation,
they mainly focus on scenarios with a single satellite or
a single beam, whereas base stations may receive multiple
interference signals from different beams or satellites in
practice. Moreover, with the increasing number of base
stations and satellites, their proposed methods cannot be
directly applied due to sizeable computational complexity.
B. Motivation and Contribution
Overall, the long-term service satisfaction of cells is highly
relevant to LEO satellite beam management approaches, which
needs to consider inter-satellite handover, beam hopping

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 73, NO. 7, JULY 2025

design, and satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing. As mentioned, due to the time-varying transmission demands of cells,
current inter-satellite handover mechanisms are ineffective in
tackling the challenges caused by imbalanced load among
satellites accumulated over time. To satisfy the differential
transmission demands of cells, the above studies in beam
hopping design greedily maximize the service satisfaction of
cells in each epoch. However, they do not take inter-satellite
handover and interference to terrestrial networks into account.
In addition, most satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing studies
only focus on a simple scenario with a single satellite or a
single beam, which cannot be applied in dynamic multiple
LEO satellite networks. To the best of our knowledge, longterm beam management approach, which jointly considers
inter-satellite handover decision, beam hopping design,
and satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing, has not been
studied.
To fill this gap, this paper proposes an effective long-term
beam management approach for scenarios with multiple LEO
satellites, comprising inter-satellite handover frequency control, beam hopping design, and satellite-terrestrial spectrum
sharing. To handle the challenge caused by time-averaged
objective and handover frequency constraints, we leverage
Lyapunov framework to obtain beam management decisions
by solving a sequence of single epoch problems. In each
epoch, we identify inter-satellite handover events by the
proposed conditional handover triggering mechanism, which
keeps load balance among satellites and maintains a low
inter-satellite handover frequency. Under the given serving
satellites, we further develop low-complexity beam hopping
design and satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing algorithms to
maximize service satisfaction. The main contributions of this
paper are summarized as follows.
• Practical network model with multiple LEO satellites
and novel beam management problem formulation:
We study a practical network model with multiple LEO
satellites, which feature dynamic topology, random traffic arrival, earth-fixed cells, satellite-terrestrial/inter-beam
interference, and corresponding interference mitigation to
achieve inter-beam and satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing. Based on such a model, we further formulate a novel
beam management problem to maximize the long-term
service satisfaction of beam cells, where inter-satellite
handover frequency, interference constraints, and the
guaranteed transmission demand of terrestrial networks
are considered. Considering the difficulty to deal with the
time-averaged objective function and constraints directly,
we construct virtual queues for beam cells and then adopt
Lyapunov framework to transform the primal problem
into a series of tractable single epoch problems, where
queue stability constraints replace inter-satellite handover
frequency constraints. Since the transformed problem has
NP complexity, we further decompose it into three simplified subproblems, consisting of inter-satellite handover
decision, beam hopping design, and satellite-terrestrial
spectrum sharing.
• Effective algorithm design for the above three subproblems: First, a novel conditional handover triggering

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

ZHU et al.: BEAM MANAGEMENT IN LOW EARTH ORBIT SATELLITE COMMUNICATION

5249

TABLE I
N OTATION

Fig. 1.

The concerned LEO satellite network scenario.

mechanism is proposed, which establishes the connections between inter-satellite handover events and network
statuses, including time-frequency resource utilization,
cell service satisfaction, and network topology. With
such a mechanism, we develop an inter-satellite handover
decision algorithm based on a multi-attribute handover
decision scheme and swap matching, aiming to control
long-term inter-satellite handover frequency and satellite
load distributions. Subsequently, we build a conflict graph
to characterize potential inter-beam interference under
the given serving satellite of each beam cell. Then,
a low-complexity beam hopping design algorithm is
developed to maximize the transmission capacity of cells
and satisfy interference constraints. After beam hopping
design, we propose a satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing
algorithm by combining improved binary sparrow search
and greedy search, which contributes to high service
satisfaction and spectral efficiency.
• Deep analysis of computational complexity and extensive simulation evaluations: The complexities of the
proposed three algorithms and complete beam management approach are analyzed in-depth, which indicates that
our proposal reduces computational complexity from an
exponential level to a square level. By conducting massive
simulations, it is shown that the proposed beam management approach can satisfy maximum inter-satellite
handover frequency constraint. Furthermore, our proposal
reduces the average data queue length by over 49%
compared with traditional inter-satellite handover mechanisms. In addition, the average data queue length is
reduced by over 20% compared with the baselines of
satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing, which verifies the
superiority of our proposal.
The reminder of this paper is organized as follows.
Section II presents the system model and spectrum sharing schemes for LEO satellite networks. In Section III, the
concerned beam management problem is formulated, and
the proposed beam management algorithms are presented in
Section IV. Simulation results are given in Section V, and the
conclusions are drawn in Section VI. The main notations used
in this paper are summarized in Table I.
II. S YSTEM M ODEL
A. Network Model
As shown in Fig. 1, define S = {1, . . . , s . . . , S} as the set
of LEO satellites, and each satellite can generate up to B spot

beams to provide high data rates. Define B = {1, .., b, . . . , B}
as the beam index set of a satellite. Satellite antennas adopt
two polarization configurations to alleviate inter-beam interference [19]. Moreover, all spot beam directions are controlled by
a gateway station, which locates on the ground and connects
satellites via feeder links. Due to the long propagation delay,
the gateway station formulates beam management decisions
in advance, which consists of the serving satellites of beam
cells, spot beam hopping design, and the bandwidth of beams.
Meanwhile, several wide control beams are generated by LEO
satellites to broadcast beam management decision to satellite

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

5250

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 73, NO. 7, JULY 2025

users. Control beams and spot beams operate on orthogonal
frequency bands, and hence interference between them can
be ignored. Denote the set of earth-fixed spot beam cells and
terrestrial cells as C = {1, 2, . . . , C} and G = {1, 2, . . . , G},
respectively. Denote the bandwidth of satellite and terrestrial
networks as W1 and W2 , respectively. Terrestrial cells adopt
soft frequency reuse schemes to serve handheld terminals,
and satellite users support carrier aggregation between the
spectrums of LEO satellite networks and terrestrial networks.
Gateway station can exchange information with the terrestrial
core network through optical fiber links, including cell loads
and locations as well as beam hopping design.
Define f = 1, 2, 3, . . . as the index of beam scheduling
epoch. Each epoch is further divided into T identical slots with
duration Tslot [5], and the index set of time slot is denoted
as T = {1, 2, . . . , T }. Network topology between satellites
and cells is regarded as static in each epoch due to relatively
short duration. Define xfs,c ∈ {0, 1} to indicate the serving
relationship between satellite s and beam cell c in epoch f .
xfs,c = 1 represents that satellite s serves cell c in epoch f ,
f,t
∈ {0, 1} to indicate
and xfs,c = 0 otherwise. Define ys,c,b
the serving relationship between cell c and the b-th beam of
f,t
satellite s in the t-th slot of epoch f . ys,c,b
= 1 if beam cell
c is served by the b-th beam of satellite s in the t-th slot of
f,t
epoch f , and ys,c,b
= 0 otherwise.
Referring to [20], we assume that satellite users are
equipped with parabolic antennas, while terrestrial users use
omnidirectional antennas. Moreover, each user is equipped
with a single antenna. Meanwhile, terrestrial users are located
within terrestrial cells and satellite users are distributed outside
the terrestrial cell areas [20], [21]. The gateway station stores
beam cell data into data queues Qc . Considering that users are
unevenly distributed among cells, arrival data sizes of cells are
differential. In epoch f , define αcf as the sum size of newly
arrived data of all satellite users in cell c, and then the update
process of data queue Qc length can be expressed as
Qfc +1 = max(Qfc − Dcf , 0) + αcf ,

(1)

where Dcf is the received data size of cell c in epoch
f
f , depending on transmission power Ps,c
, transmission and
receiving gain of antennas, bandwidth Wcf , channel gain
hfs,c between the center point of cell c and satellite s, and
interference. Furthermore, Dcf can be calculated as
Dcf =

S X
B X
T
X

Wcf Tslot log(1 +

s=1 b=1 t=1

f,t
f
ys,c,b
Ps,c
Gp hfs,c
f,t
g
Is,c,b
+ Ic,f,t
+ kTc Wcf

where Gp = G1p G2p , G1p and G2p are the peak gains of transmission and receiving antennas, respectively. k is Boltzman
g
constant, Tc represents receiver temperature of cell c. Ic,f,t
is the strength of received interference from terrestrial base
f,t
stations. Is,c,b
is the strength of interference the cell c suffered
in the t-th slot of epoch f , which is given by [15]
X X X f,t
f,t
f
1
Is,c,b
=
ys′ ,c′ ,b′ Ps,c
G2θf hfs′ ,c ,
′ Gp G f
θ
c′ ,s′ ,c

c′ ,s′ ,c

s′ ,c,s

the gain attenuations of transmission and receiving antennas on
the direction of off-axis angles θcf′ ,s′ ,c and θsf′ ,c,s , respectively.
Particularly, θcf′ ,s′ ,c can be calculated as
θcf′ ,s′ ,c = arccos[((dfs′ ,c )2 +(dfs′ ,c′ )2 − (dfc,c′ )2 )/(2dfs′ ,c dfs′ ,c′ )],
(4)
where dfs′ ,c , dfs′ ,c′ and dfc,c′ represent the distance between
satellite s′ and the center of cell c, satellite s′ and the center
of cell c′ , the centers of cells c and c′ in epoch f , respectively.
Similarly, θsf′ ,c,s can be calculated as
θsf′ ,c,s = arccos[((dfs,c )2 + (dfs′ ,c )2 − (dfs,s′ )2 )/(2dfs,c dfs′ ,c )],
(5)
where dfs,s′ represents the distance between satellites s and s′
in epoch f .
Define lgf ∈ [0, 1] as the transmission load of base station
g in epoch f , which means that base station g should work
at least ⌈lgf T ⌉ time slots to guarantee the service quality of
terrestrial users. Since the coverage radius can reach several
ten to hundred kilometers, a beam occupying the spectrum
of terrestrial networks will incur serious co-frequency interf,t
ference to numerous terrestrial cells. Define zs,c
∈ {0, 1} to
indicate whether satellite s occupies the spectrum of terrestrial
f,t
= 1 means that satellite s
networks to serve cell c. zs,c
occupies the spectrum of terrestrial cells to serve beam cell c in
f,t
= 0 otherwise. At the center
the t-th slot of epoch f , and zs,c
of terrestrial cell g, the strength of the received interference
signal from the beam cell c in the t-th slot of epoch f can be
expressed as [18]
X
f,t
f,t f
Ig,c
=
zs,c
Ps,c G1p G1θf G3θf hfs,g ,
(6)
c,s,g

s,g

s∈S

where G1θf

is the gain attenuation of the satellite antenna

c,s,g

f
on the direction of off-axis angle θc,s,g
, which is calculated
based on the location of satellite s, the centers of cells c and
g. G3θf is the receiving gain on the direction of off-axis angle
s,g

f
f
θs,g
, and θs,g
depends on the location of satellite s, cell c and
terrestrial users. hfs,g is channel gain between the center of
cell g and satellite s in epoch f .

),

(2)

c′ ∈C\{c} s′ ∈S b′ ∈Bb

where Bb is the set of beams with the same spectrum and
polarization configuration as beam b. G1θf
and G2θf
are

s′ ,c,s

(3)

B. Interference Mitigation Strategies to Achieve Spectrum
Sharing in LEO Satellite Networks
1) Inter-Beam Interference Mitigation Strategy: Considering that the movement trajectory and speed of LEO
satellites can be predicted using ephemeris information, the
frequency offset caused by the Doppler effect can be calculated
in advance. Subsequently, satellites can execute frequency
pre-compensation to mitigate inter-beam interference caused
by the Doppler effect. Then, the negative effect of Doppler
effect can be ignored. Next, we further provide feasible
inter-beam interference mitigation strategies for wide beams,
spot beams, and feeder links.

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

ZHU et al.: BEAM MANAGEMENT IN LOW EARTH ORBIT SATELLITE COMMUNICATION

a) Wide beams: Similar to spot beam cells, wide beam cells
are also earth-fixed, but each wide beam cell overlaps with
multiple spot beam cells. Since the spot beam cells served
by different satellites may be geographically close, multiple
wide beams may overlap simultaneously. Hence, a frequencydivision multiplexing strategy is required. In this case, the
available spectrum for wide beams is divided into several
distinct bands, e.g. 9 segments. Then, each wide beam cell
is allocated three available frequency bands, ensuring that
the spectrum of each wide beam cell is orthogonal to that
of its adjacent cells. When a LEO satellite transmits control
signaling to a specific cell, the corresponding wide beam can
only select one band from the allocated frequency bands of
the target cell. Based on the above scheme, the co-frequency
interference among wide beams can be effectively mitigated.
b) Spot beams: In [13] and [15], a simple interference
mitigation strategy is adopted to design beam hopping patterns, where any two adjacent beam cells obtain service in
different slots. Unfortunately, as the beam direction is far
from the sub-satellite point, the beam footprint deforms, and
its coverage area extends [1]. In this case, the serving beam
brings severe interference to the nonadjacent cells of served
cell, which makes the above interference mitigation strategy
ineffective. Remarkably, the gain of high directional antennas
rapidly decreases when off-axis angles exceed the half-power
f,t
beamwidth of antennas, and interference strength Is,c,b
in
equation (2) depends on off-axis angles and interference beam
number. Hence, we propose a more appropriate inter-beam
interference mitigation approach based on the off-axis angle
model, whose detail is presented as follows.
Denote the target signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of cell c in
epoch f as SN Rcf , which can be expressed as
SN Rcf = 10 log(Psfc ,c Gp hfsc ,c ) − 10 log(kTc Wcf ),

(7)

where sc is the serving satellite of beam cell c. According
to equation (3) and (7), the interference from cell c′ can be
calculated by SN Rcf , SN Rcf′ , hfsc ,c , hfsc′ ,c and antenna gain
attenuation value, where sc′ is the serving satellite of beam
cell c′ . Define Isth as the acceptable maximum interferenceto-noise ratio (INR) of inter-beam interference [15]. Define Scf
as the maximal number of satellites that are visible to cell c in
epoch f . Then, we can set a dynamic threshold Gth
c,c′ for cell c
to restrict the maximum sum of antenna gain attenuation value
caused by off-axis angles θc′ ,sc′ ,c and θsc ,c,sc′ , which can be
expressed as
f
th
f
),
Gth
c,c′ = Is − 10 log(Sc B) − SN Rc′ − 10 log( f
δc,c′ hfsc′ ,c

(8)
f

Fig. 2. The spectrum sharing strategy between LEO satellite networks and
terrestrial networks.

c) Feeder links: Since the antennas of satellites and gateway
stations are highly directional, gateway stations can adopt the
same interference mitigation method based on off-axis angles
and judge the feasibility of two feeder links sharing the same
spectrum.
2) Static Satellite-Terrestrial Interference Mitigation Strategy for Wide Beams: Referring to 3GPP TR 38.802 [22],
satellite users only require a minimum signal to interference
plus noise patio (SINR) of -6 dB to correctly receive synchronization and control signaling from LEO satellites. Meanwhile,
due to the significant near-far effect in terrestrial cells, users
located at the center of terrestrial cells receive strong signals
from base stations, while those at the edge receive weaker
signals and are more susceptible to interference from satellites.
In this case, when satellite users and terrestrial users are
distributed across different areas [20], [21], a static satelliteterrestrial spectrum sharing mechanism between wide beams
and terrestrial networks is developed as shown in Fig. 2.
Specifically, the terrestrial cell center shares spectrum with
wide beams and terrestrial cell edge operates on adjacent
frequency bands to them. Moreover, since the spectrum sharing
mechanism for wide beams is static, it can enhance spectral
efficiency without signaling overhead.
3) Dynamic Satellite-Terrestrial Interference Mitigation
Strategy for Spot Beams: Define Igth as the INR threshold
to restrict the maximum interference between LEO satellite
networks and terrestrial networks [6]. Since off-axis angle
f
θs,g
has high randomness, we set G3θf = Ggp to evaluate
s,g
the worst satellite-terrestrial interference case. In this case,
the INR constraint of satellite-terrestrial interference can be
expressed as
XX
f,t f
Igf,t =
zs,c
Ps,c G1p G1θf Ggp hfs,g < Igth .
(9)
c,s,g

c∈C s∈S

hfsc ,c

f

5251

f
(SN Rc −SN Rc′ )
where δc,c
, and B is the maximum beam
′ = 10
number generated by a LEO satellite.
Note that antenna gain attenuation value can be calculated
based on the locations of beam cells and satellites. Hence,
we can easily judge the feasibility of two beams sharing the
same spectrum, where two beams with the same polarization
configuration cannot share a spectrum unless the sum of
antenna gain attenuation value is less than Gth
c,c′ .

When spot beams share the spectrum of terrestrial networks,
severe co-frequency interference may appear, which lowers the transmission rate and even interrupts communication
links. To improve spectral efficiency, we propose a dynamic
satellite-terrestrial interference mitigation strategy to support
satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing between spot beams and
terrestrial networks from a spatial-temporal perspective.
As shown in Fig. 3, the process of our proposal can be
concluded as eight steps. First, terrestrial base stations report
load information to terrestrial core network. Then, the core
network divides base stations into clusters to reduce the
signaling overhead and the complexity of satellite-terrestrial

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

5252

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 73, NO. 7, JULY 2025

spectrum sharing decision. Considering that the interference
areas of beams are geographically correlated with the areas
of served cells, it contributes to distributing base stations
to clusters. Notably, antenna pattern design plays a crucial
role in determining the size of a base station cluster. In the
following, we provide two methods to determine cluster areas
for different antenna types of LEO satellites.
a) Parabolic antennas: Due to beam deformation [1], the
interfered area of a spot beam expands, causing severe interference to base stations located in non-adjacent beam cells of
the served beam cell. Therefore, when LEO satellites employ
parabolic antennas, the centers of base station clusters align
with the center of beam cells. Moreover, the radius of the
base station cluster is five times that of the beam cells, which
guarantees that all base stations interfered by the same beam
are grouped within a base station cluster.
b) Phased antenna arrays: When phased antenna arrays and
adaptive beamforming techniques are adopted, LEO satellites
can force the beam footprint match the boundary of beam
cells. In this case, the radius of all base station clusters can
be set to three times the radius of beam cells.
Based the above methods, base stations can be effectively
grouped into clusters based on their geographic locations.
Define J = {1, . . . , j, . . . J} as the set of clusters, and the set
of base stations in cluster j is denoted as Gj . Next, the core
network predicts the transmission load of each base station in
epoch f based on historical load information [23], [24], and
then sets the cluster load ljf = max lgf . Specifically, advanced
g∈Gj

artificial intelligence methods are adopted by the core network
to enable real-time provision of cluster load information to
the gateway station. Third, the core network provides ljf and
cluster locations to the gateway station. Subsequently, the
gateway station formulates beam management decisions for
epoch f and transmits them to the core network. In this
step, the formulated beam management decisions guarantee the
transmission demand of terrestrial users, which means that the
duration of strong interference a cluster suffered is less than
T Tslot ⌊1 − ljf ⌋. Then, the gateway station controls satellites
performing beam management decisions. Moreover, all base
stations receive the interference slot information provided
by the core network and then prohibit the transmission or
receiving of data of cell edge users in these slots. Specifically,
considering satellite users far from terrestrial base stations
and the proposed dynamic spectrum sharing strategy, the
g
interference Ic,f,t
from base stations to satellite users in (2) is
ignored in subsequent analysis.
III. P ROBLEM F ORMULATION A ND T RANSFORMATION
A. Problem Constraints
Considering the limited capability of user equipments,
a beam cell is served by a beam at most in each slot [5],
which can be represented as
S X
B
X
f,t
ys,c,b
≤ 1, ∀c ∈ C, ∀f, t.

(10)

s=1 b=1

Moreover, a beam cell is only served by a LEO satellite in
each epoch, and the serving satellite must be within the beam

Fig. 3. The process of the proposed satellite-terrestrial interference mitigation
strategy to achieve spectrum sharing.

cell’s visible range, which is expressed as
S
X

f
βs,c
xfs,c = 1, ∀c ∈ C, ∀f,

(11)

s=1
f
f
= 1 if the elevation angle between
∈ {0, 1}. βs,c
where βs,c
satellite s and the center of beam cell c is larger than a preset
f
= 0 otherwise. In addition,
threshold in epoch f , and βs,c
a beam cannot simultaneously serve two beam cells, which is
given by
C
X
f,t
ys,c,b
≤ 1, ∀f, s, t, b.

(12)

c=1

Due to hardware capability limitation, a LEO satellite can
generate up to B beams in each slot, which can be represented
as
B
C X
X
f,t
ys,c,b
≤ B, ∀s, t, f.

(13)

c=1 b=1

Under the given Gth
c,c′ in equation (8), we can obtain a tuple
set Kf , where each element {s, s′ , c, c′ } ∈ Kf represents that
severe interference occurs if satellites s and s′ simultaneously
serve cells c and c′ via beams with the same spectrum and
polarization configuration. Then, to achieve inter-beam spectrum sharing, the inter-beam interference mitigation constraint
can be expressed as
f,t
′
′
′
′
ys,c,b
+ ysf,t
′ ,c′ ,b′ = 0, ∀{s, s , c, c } ∈ Kf , b, b ∈ B , ∀t, f,

(14)
where B ′ is the set of beams with the same frequency band
and polarization configuration.
f
Define Is,c,j
to indicate the interference event between
cluster j, LEO satellite s and beam cell c in the t-th slot
of epoch f , which is given by
P

1, if xfs,c ( g∈Gg I(Igf,t > Igth )) > 0
f,t
Is,c,j
=
(15)
0, otherwise,
where I(.) is indicator function. Define uf,t
∈ {0, 1} to
j
indicate whether base stations in cluster j suffer serious
interference from LEO satellites. uf,t
= 1 if a base station
j
in cluster j suffers serious interference from LEO satellites in

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

ZHU et al.: BEAM MANAGEMENT IN LOW EARTH ORBIT SATELLITE COMMUNICATION

the t-th slot of epoch f , and uf,t
j = 0 otherwise. Specifically,
f
the relationship between uf,t
and
variable Is,c,j
in (15) can
j
P
P
f,t
f,t
be written as uj = I( s c Is,c,j ). Therefore, to support
dynamic satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing, the maximum
duration constraint of satellite-terrestrial interference in epoch
f can be expressed as
T
X

Lemma 1: The inter-satellite handover frequency constraints (17) can be replaced by queue stabilization
constraints.
Proof: Based on queue update process in (20), we have
Mc,f − Mc,f −1 ≥ mc,f .

(16)
Mc,F − Mc,1 ≥

Denote the tolerable maximum inter-satellite handover
frequency threshold as H, and then handover frequency constraint can be expressed as
Hcf
≤ H, ∀c, f,
f →∞ f
lim

(17)

where Hcf is the accumulated number of inter-satellite handover of satellite users in beam cell c from epochs 1 to f .
Moreover, we have Hc1 = 0 and
f X
S
X

′

′

1 − xfs,c−1 xfs,c , ∀f ≥ 2.

(18)

mc,f = HcF − F H.

C
C
X
X
f
f 2
δf = V [ (Dc − Qc ) ] +
Mc,f mc,f ,
c=1

f,t
f,t
Define X = {{xfs,c }, {ys,c,b
}, {zs,c
}} as the beam management decisions in epoch f , consequently, the concerned beam
management optimization problem is formulated as follows.

P0 :
C

1 XX f
(Dc − Qfc )2
{X |∀f } F →∞ F
c=1

(19)

f,t
f,t
s.t. xfs,c , ys,c,b
, zs,c
∈ {0, 1}, ∀c, f, t, s, b,

(19a)

lim

f =1

T X
B
X
f,t
xfs,c = I(
ys,c,b
), ∀c, f, s,
t=1 b=1
B
X
f,t
f,t
zs,c
≤
ys,c,b
,
b=1

∀c, f, t, s,

(19b)

(19c)

(10) − (14), (16), (17).
The concerned beam management problem intends to maximize the long-term service satisfaction of beam cells and
control inter-satellite handover frequency. Constraint (19a)
f,t
f,t
means that variables xfs,c , ys,c,b
, and zs,c
are binary variables.
Constraints (19b) and (19c) represent limitions between varif,t
f,t
ables xfs,c , ys,c,b
, and zs,c
.
C. Problem Transformation

(22)

Dividing by F and using Mc,1 = 0, it can prove that queue
M c stabilization is equivalent to the concerned maximum
inter-satellite handover frequency constraint (17) being satisfied.
□
Define M f = (M1,f , . . . , MC,f ) as the vector of all virtual
queue Mc,f , and denote the Lyapunov function L(M f ) =
PC
1
2
c=1 Mc,f . Then, denote the drift in the Lyapunov function
2
as ∆(f ), and it is given by ∆(f ) ≜ L(M f +1 ) − L(M f ).
Define an auxiliary variable δf , which is given by

B. Problem Formulation

F

F
X
f =1

f ′ =2 s=1

min

(21)

Summing over f ∈ {2, 3, . . . , F }, we can obtain
f
uf,t
j ≤ T ⌊1 − lj ⌋, ∀j, f.

t=1

Hcf =

5253

(23)

c=1

where V ≥ 0 is a constant.
Lemma 2: The objective function of problem P 0 can be
converted into δf , and the desired algorithm minimizing δf
can guarantee the queue stability of Mc .
Proof: To solve the minimization problem P 0 , we apply
the drift-plus-penalty technology and then obtain the equivalent objective function as follows [26]
C
X
min ∆(f ) + V E[ (Dcf − Qfc )2 |M f ].

(24)

c=1

Under any beam management decision X , we can obtain
the upper bound of (24) as follows [25]
C
X
∆(f ) + V E[ (Dcf − Qfc )2 |M f ] ≤ B0
c=1
C
X
+ E[
Mc,f mc,f + V (Dcf − Qfc )2 |M f ],

(25)

c=1

PC
where B0 is a constant and B0 ≥ 21 c=1 E[m2c,f |L(M f )].
In this case, the minimization of (24) can be achieved by
minimizing the right-hand-side of inequality (25) [25], [26],
which means that problem P 0 can be solved by greedily
minimizing the following objective function in each epoch:

To cope with the complexity caused by time-averaged objective function and constraint (17), we leverage Lyapunov drift
rule to simplify the primal problem P0 into a more tractable
expression [25], [26]. Define a virtual queue Mc for beam
cell c to characterize the relationship between inter-satellite
handover frequency and handover threshold H [25], whose
length in epoch f is denoted as Mc,f . We have

Hence, the conversion of the objective function is proven.
Next, we prove the stability of queue Mc . Since mc,f ≤ 1−H
and Mc,f ≤ 2(1 − H), it can be inferred that

Mc,f = max(Mc,f −1 + mc,f , 0), ∀c,
(20)
PS
−1 f
where mc,f = (1 − s=1 xfs,c
xs,c ) − H and Mc,1 = 0.

1X 2
2
2
M − Mc,f
−1 ≤ B0 + 2C(1 − H) .
2 c=1 c,f

C
X
E[
Mc,f mc,f + V (Dcf − Qfc )2 |M f ] = E[δf |M f ]. (26)
c=1

C

(27)

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

5254

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 73, NO. 7, JULY 2025

2
Summing over f ∈ {2, 3, . . . , F }, we have E(Mc,F
) ≤
2
2
2
),
2F (B0 + 2C(1 − H) ). Due to E(Mc,F ) ≤ E(Mc,F
we have
q
(28)
E(Mc,F ) ≤ 2F (B0 + 2C(1 − H)2 ).
M

Finally, it can be obtained that limF →∞ Fc,F = 0.
□
Based on the above analysis, the primal problem P 0 can be
transformed into a series of per-epoch problems P 1 as follows
P1 :
min

f,t
f,t
{{xfs,c },{ys,c,b
},{zs,c
}|M f ,f }

δf

(29)

Fig. 4.

Beam management problem decomposition framework.

s.t. (10) − (14), (16), (19a) − (19c).
IV. P ROBLEM D ECOMPOSITION AND B EAM
M ANAGEMENT A LGORITHM D ESIGN
A. Problem Decomposition
According to [27], the performance gap between primary
problem P0 and the optimal result of problem P1 can be
expressed as
1
),
(30)
V
where δf∗ is the optimal result of problem P1 , δ ∗ is the optimal
result of problem P0 . Moreover, a large V contributes to
minimizing the performance gap between primary problem P0
and transformed problem P1 . However, this comes at the cost
of relaxing inter-satellite handover frequency constraints.
V is set to a sufficiently large value, term
PWhen
C
M
mc,f in δf can be approximately ignored. Morec,f
c=1
over, considering that (Dcf − Qfc )2 is convex and Dcf ≤ Qfc ,
the objective functions of the problem P0 and P1 satisfy
the property of diminishing returns when V is sufficiently
large. In this case, the objective functions are submodular
functions [28]. In, addition, constraints (10)-(13) can be
regarded as knapsack constraints. Therefore, problems P0
and P1 are NP-hard [28], [29], [30], and corresponding
algorithms for solving such problems are mostly greedy.
However, although a continuous greedy process can achieve at
least (1 − 1e )-approximation for submodular problem [29], it
inefficiently obtain a high-quality solution within a reasonable
time overhead due to enormous amounts of variables and
constraint terms as well as strong coupling between them in
problem P1 .
For these reasons, this part further decouples problem P1
into three tractable sub-problems. The problem decomposition
framework is shown in Fig. 4, and corresponding reasons
are concluded as follows. Inter-satellite handover control is a
core aspect of beam management approach, which requires
the gateway station preassigning serving satellite beams to
cells and maintaining a relatively low handover frequency.
If the developed handover algorithm is executed in each
epoch or iteratively invoked, it will significantly increase
the inter-satellite handover frequency [9]. Hence, we first
decompose an inter-satellite handover decision problem from
problem P 1 , and then design a conditional handover triggering
mechanism. The beam hopping design is independent of
δf∗ ≤ δ ∗ + O(

satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing decisions in our scenario.
Moreover, satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing cooperation
may be canceled when LEO satellite networks work on
a low load state or terrestrial networks overload. Hence,
under the given serving satellites of beam cells, problem
P 1 are further divided into beam hopping design problem and
satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing problem.
Considering the requirement of practical applications, three
decomposed problems are only solved once in each epoch.
In addition, the required decision space sizes of decomposed
subproblems are far less than problem P1 , which contributes
to obtaining desired beam management decisions with low
complexity.
B. Inter-Satellite Handover Decision Problem and Algorithm
Design
In this part, we need to pre-assign serving satellites to beam
cells before allocating time-frequency transmission resource.
However, since the objective function value of problem P1
relies on beam hopping design and satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing decisions. it cannot derive the closed-form
solutions of inter-satellite handover, beam hopping, and
dynamic spectrum sharing decisions due to their tightly coupled relationships. Meanwhile, referring to [5], achieving load
balancing between LEO satellites is of great importance to
improve the resource utilization and cell satisfaction of the
entire system. Therefore, to control inter-satellite handover
frequency and improve the service satisfaction of beam cells,
the objective function δf′ for inter-satellite handover decision
problem P2 is carefully designed based on problem P1 , which
is expressed as
P2 :
min

{{xfs,c }|M f ,f }

δf′

(31)

s.t. (11), (19a).
where
δf′ =

S
X
s=1

PC
V(

C
1
f
f
X
c=1 (xs,c − 2 )Qc 2
)
+
Mc,f mc,f ,
PC
f
c=1
c=1 Qc

(32)

and the first term of the right-hand-side of equation (32)
represents the normalized weight value of satellite loads, while

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

ZHU et al.: BEAM MANAGEMENT IN LOW EARTH ORBIT SATELLITE COMMUNICATION

PC
the second term c=1 Mc,f mc,f controls inter-satellite handover frequency. Given the uncertainty in beam hopping and
spectrum sharing decisions, the solution of problem P2 can
achieve the tradeoff between inter-satellite handover frequency
and network load balancing, which contributes to improving
cell service satisfaction.
Actually, LEO satellite load fluctuates over time due to
random traffic arrival. If load balance strategy is performed
in each epoch, inter-satellite handover frequency inevitably
increases without apparent benefits. To overcome this issue,
we propose a conditional handover triggering mechanism,
where inter-satellite handover procedure is only executed if
one of conditions holds. Note that inter-satellite handover procedure must be implemented when serving satellite leaves the
visible area of a served cell. In this case, the gateway station
requires reallocating a satellite to this beam cell. In addition,
due to the movement of satellites, beam hopping design and
satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing algorithms may output
low-quality solutions as interference situations change. The
low-quality solution represents that LEO satellite networks has
a low resource utilization rate when the loads of satellites are
high. Specifically, the resource utilization rate is the average
ratio of the occupied time-frequency-space resource and all
available resources of all beams. Therefore, the gateway station
is required to monitor load statuses and resource utilization
rates of LEO satellite networks. If resource utilization rate
is lower than preset threshold σ0 and the minimum load of
satellite is higher than its capacity Cs , gateway station will
automatically reallocate serving satellites to beam cells.
Based the proposed conditional handover triggering mechanism, we further develop a proactive algorithm to solve
problem P2 , which is shown in Algorithm 1. First, beam cells
without serving satellite will obtain a new serving satellite.
and the initial serving satellites of them are obtained by a
widely used multi-attribute handover decision scheme based
on entropy in [11], where satellite loads, remaining service
time, and elevation angle are considered as attributes (line 214). Unfortunately, the above stage tends to load imbalance
among satellites since it will distribute cells to satellites with
high loads. Therefore, we further control load distributions
and inter-satellite handover frequency based on matching
theory (line 15-36). To enhance the exploration capacity of
the proposal, we randomly adjust serving satellites of several
cells (line 16). Moreover, the expected value of the objective
function δf′ monotonically decreases by swapping matching
operations, which ensures convergence.
Define Cs as the set of beam cells served by satellite s, and
Cs = {c|xfs,c = 1}. Thereby, we have Cs1 ∩Cs2 = ∅, ∀s1 , s2 ∈
S and ∪s=1,...,S Cs = C. Define Cs = (C1 , C2 , . . . CS ), and
then denote the objective function value δf′ under decision Cs
as δf′ (Cs ). For any two beam cells c1 ∈ Cs1 and c2 ∈ Cs2 ,
there are two kinds of swap operations for them. The first
kind of swap operation converts Cs1 and Cs2 into Cs′ 1 and Cs′ 2
by removing and adding beam cell operations (line 19-26),
i.e., Cs′ 1 = Cs1 \ {c1 } ∪ {c2 } and Cs′ 2 = Cs2 \ {c2 } ∪ {c1 }.
The second kind of swap operation converts Cs1 and Cs2
into Cs′ 1 and Cs′ 2 by removing a cell from Cs1 and then
adding it into Cs2 (line 27-34), i.e., Cs′ 1 = Cs1 \ {c1 } and

5255

Algorithm 1 Inter-Satellite Handover Decision Algorithm
−1
1: Input: M f , Qfc , H, xfs,c
, xfs,c = 0, σf .
2: for c = 1 : C do
3:
if the serving satellite can continue to serve cell c then
−1
4:
xfs,c = xfs,c
.
5:
Update the load of the serving satellite of cell c.
6:
end if
7: end for
8: for c = 1 : C do
9:
if xfs,c == 0 then
10:
Allocate the serving satellite by using the multi-attribute

decision handover scheme based on entropy in [11].
11:
σf = 0.
12:
Update the load of the serving satellite of cell c.
13:
end if
14: end for
PC
15: if σf == 0 or (σf < σ0 and min( c=1 xfs,c Qfc ) > Cs ) then
s

Randomly adjust serving satellites of several cells.
repeat
Construct Cs and calculate δf′ (Cs ) based on current
{xfs,c }.
19:
for c1 = 1 : C do
20:
for c2 = 1 : C do
21:
Select a first kind swap and obtain δf′ (Cs′ ).
22:
if δf′ (Cs′ ) < δf′ (Cs ) then
23:
Update xfs,c and δf′ (Cs ).
24:
end if
25:
end for
26:
end for
27:
for c = 1 : C do
28:
for s = 1 : S do
29:
Select a second kind swap and obtain δf′ (Cs′ ).
30:
if δf′ (Cs′ ) < δf′ (Cs ) then
31:
Update xfs,c and δf′ (Cs ).
32:
end if
33:
end for
34:
end for
35:
until the number of iterations reaches N ′ or all δf′ (Cs′ ) ≥
δf′ (Cs )
36: end if
37: Output: {xfs,c }.
16:
17:
18:

Cs′ 2 = Cs2 ∪ {c1 }. The resulted vector after once swap operation is denoted as Cs′ = (C1 , . . . , Cs′ 1 , Cs′ 2 , . . . , CS ). In swap
matching stage, a swap is accepted only if Cs′ 1 and Cs′ 2
satisfy constraints (11) and δf′ (Cs′ ) < δf′ (Cs ) [13]. Finally,
Algorithm 1 outputs serving relationship {xfs,c } when it cannot
find a feasible swap operation or the number of iterations
reaches threshold N ′ . In addition, according to Lyapunov
optimization theory [26], the inter-satellite handover decisions
outputted by Algorithm 1 can satisfy the inter-satellite handover frequency constraint (17) by utilizing the constructed
virtual queue Mc and minimizing the objective function of
problem P2 .
C. Beam Hopping Design Problem and Algorithm Design
Under the given serving relationship xfs,c , inter-satellite
handover frequencies of beam cells are deterministic values.
Therefore, the objective function δf of problem P 1 degrades
PC
into c=1 (Dcf − Qfc )2 , whose solution dimensions are proportional to the number of available beams, beam cells, and
time slots in each epoch. Since such large solution dimensions

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

5256

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 73, NO. 7, JULY 2025

significantly increase the complexity of obtaining a proper
beam hopping
PCdesign [13], we solve problem P 1 by greedily
minimizing c=1 (Dcf −Qfc )2 in each slot in sequence. Define
Dcf,t as the transmission data size of cell c in the t-th slot of
epoch f via the exclusive spectrum of LEO satellite networks,
which can be calculated as
Dcf,t =

C X
B
X
f,t
ys,c,b
W1 Tslot log(1 + SN Rcf ).

(33)

s=1 b=1

Denote the remaining data queue length of beam cell c of the
f,t+1
t-th slot of epoch f as Qf,t
= max(0, Qf,t
c , where Qc
c −
f,t
f,1
f
Dc ) and Qc = Qc . Then, the beam hopping design
problem in slot t can be expressed as
P3 :
min

C
X
2
(Dcf,t − Qf,t
c )

f,t
{{ys,c,b
}|xfs,c ,Qf,t
c ,f,t} c=1

(34)

s.t. (10) − (14), (19a), (19b).
Since the inter-beam interference situation can be regarded
as fixed in each epoch with a short duration, we can construct
a weighted conflict graph for all slots in an epoch. Define Vf
as the vertex set of conflict graph in epoch f , and a vertex
f,t
represents a feasible ys,c,b
of a cell. There are bound to B
vertices corresponding to a cell, representing that a cell can
be served by any beam of the serving satellite. Define Ef as
the edge set in conflict graph. If an edge connects two vertices
v1 and v2 , it indicates that two beam hopping decisions
ysf,t
, ysf,t
corresponding to vertices v1 and v2 violate
1 ,c1 ,b1
2 ,c2 ,b2
a constraint term. Remarkably, the situations in which an edge
appears can be summarized into three categories.
• Two vertices represent the same cell, which violates
constraint (10).
• Two vertices represent that two cells are simultaneously
served by a beam, which violates constraints (12).
• Severe inter-beam interference occurs, which violates
constraint (14).
Fig. 5 presents an example of a LEO satellite network
scenario and corresponding conflict graph, where satellite
1 serves cells 1 and 2, and satellite 2 serves cells 3 and 4. Beam
1 and 2 operate on different antenna polarization methods and
the number of vertices in set Vf is 8. An edge connects vertices
1 and 2 since they all represent cell 1. Severe inter-beam
interference occurs when cells 1 and 3 simultaneously obtain
service from beams with the same polarization configuration.
Hence, vertex 1 directly connects with vertex 5, and vertex
2 connects with vertex 6.
The weight of vertex v corresponding to beam cell c is
calculated by a subtraction operation between a constant and
2
term (Dcf,t − Qf,t
c ) , which is given by
2
f,t
f,t 2
wv = (W1 Tslot log(1 + SN Rcf ))2 +(Qf,t
c ) − (Dc −Qc ) .
(35)

The weighted maximum independent set (WMIS) problem
aims to search a subset of vertices with the maximum weight
sum, where any two vertices in subset are disconnected [31].

Fig. 5. An example of a network scenario and corresponding conflict graph.

Algorithm 2 Beam Hopping Design Algorithm
1: Input: xfs,c , T , Qfc , Result = ∅.
2: Construct a conflict graph (Vf , Ef ), Qf,1
= Q′c,f = Qfc .
c
3: for t=1:T do
4:
Set available state f = 01×Vf | and V ′ = ∅.
5:
Set an inaccessible state f (k) = 1 for all vertices with

empty queue.
Calculate the weight wv and weight radio ρv for all vertices.
According to descending order of weight radio ρv , visit all
vertices.
8:
for k = 1 : |Vf | do
9:
if f (k) == 0 then
10:
Find the vertex vk corresponding to the sorted index
k.
11:
if V ′ == ∅ or edge (vk , vk′ ) ̸∈ Ef , ∀vk′ ∈ V ′ then
f,t
12:
Result ← Result ∪ {ys,c,b
}.
′
′
13:
V ← V ∪ {vk }.
14:
Set inaccessible states f (k) = 1 for all vertices
in Vvk .
15:
Recalculate the weight ratios for the remaining
vertices and reorder vertices.
16:
end if
17:
Update Qf,t
and set Q′c,f = Qf,t
c .
c
18:
end if
19:
end for
20: end for
21: Output: Result.
6:
7:

Specifically, since vertices with the same serving beam are
connected in conflict graph, vertices in WMIS also satisfy
the maximum serving beam number constraint (13). Hence,
vertices in WMIS satisfy all constraints of problem P3 .
In addition, the maximum weight sum of WMIS corresponds
to the minimum objective function value of problem P3 .
Therefore, problem P3 can be converted into a WMIS problem
based on the built conflict graph [32].
As shown in Algorithm 2, we propose a low complexity
greedy search algorithm to solve the transformed WMIS problem. We first set inaccessible states for vertices with empty
data queue (line 4-5), and then calculate weight P
ratios ρv for
rest accessible vertices, where ρv = wv /(wv + v′ ∈Vv (1 −
f (v))wv′ ), and Vv is the set of accessible vertices adjacent
to vertex v, f (v) is the accessibility status of vertex v
(line 6). Next, accessible vertices are visited according to the
descending order of weight ratio ρv (line 7-19). In this stage,
when an accessible vertex is recorded, its adjacent vertices are
set as inaccessible states and then the weight ratios ρv for the
remaining vertices are recalculated. (line 11-16). Meanwhile,
we calculate the Qf,t
of cells obtaining service (line 17).
c

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

ZHU et al.: BEAM MANAGEMENT IN LOW EARTH ORBIT SATELLITE COMMUNICATION

When all vertices are set to inaccessible states, we update
the weight and accessibility of vertices and then repeat the
above process for next slot. Finally, Algorithm 2 outputs beam
f,t
hopping decisions {ys,c,b
} and the rest data queue length Q′c,f .
D. Satellite-Terrestrial Dynamic Spectrum Sharing Problem
and Algorithm Design
′
Define Dc,f
as the transmission data size of beam cell c in
epoch f via the spectrum of terrestrial networks, and it can
be calculated as
′
Dc,f
=

S X
T
X

f,t
zs,c
(W2 − Wcenter )Tslot log(1 + SN Rcf ),

s=1 t=1

(36)
where Wcenter is the bandwidth of terrestrial cell center.
In order to achieve high spectral efficiency and minimize the
objective function of problem P 1 , an optimization problem P4
based on the given serving satellite and beam hopping design
is formulated as follows.
P4 :
min

f,t
f,t
{{zs,c
}|Q′c,f ,xfs,c ,ys,c,b
,f }

C
X
′
(Dc,f
− Q′c,f )2

(37)

c=1

s.t. (16), (19a), (19c).
Although problem P 4 can be converted into an integer
programming problem, it confronts an unacceptable computational time cost in directly applying the classical branch
and bound method or solvers [32]. To address this issue,
we develop a low complexity satellite-terrestrial spectrum
sharing algorithm to solve problem P 4 , which combines with
improved binary sparrow search algorithm in [33] and greedy
search algorithm, whose detail is summarized in Algorithm 3.
f,t
of beam cells with an empty
Firstly, decision variables zs,c
queue are set to 0, and the dimension of a sparrow equals the
f,t
, which contributes to reducing
number of rest variables zs,c
the decision space size. Since chaotic mapping has powerful
capacities in increasing exploration capacity, we adopt tent
chaotic strategy to initialize sparrows with continuous values
between 0 and 1. Define Si,j as the value of the j-th continuous variable of the i-th sparrow, and corresponding binary
′
value Si,j
is obtained by inputting Si,j to a s-shape function,
which is given by [34]

1
> µ,
1, if 1+e−2S
′
i,j
(38)
Si,j =
0, otherwise,
where µ is a random value between 0 and 1. Moreover, the
quality of sparrow i is evaluated by its fitness value Fi , which
can be calculated as
(P
C
′
′
2
c=1 Ωc − (Dc,f − Qc,f ) , if constraint (16) holds,
Fi = PC
′
2
otherwise,
c=1 Ωc − (Qc,f ) ,
(39)
2

where Ωc = Q′c,f +[(W2 −Wcenter )Tslot log(1+SN Rcf )T ]2 .
Specifically, if the solution violates satellite-terrestrial interference constraint (16), corresponding fitness value is set to

5257

an extremely low value, which can guarantee the obtained
spectrum sharing solution is feasible.
Next, we sort sparrows according to the descent order of fitness value and then divide them into producers and scroungers.
Meanwhile, several sparrows are randomly selected as spectators. The update processes of producers, scroungers, and
spectators are consistent with the traditional sparrow search
algorithm in [33]. Moreover, our proposal adopts additional
local search (line 7-22) and adaptive crossover (line 2330) steps to enhance the exploit capacity. Local search is
executed by performing mutation operations for the sparrow
with maximum fitness value. Adaptive crossover procedure is
worked on the half of sparrows with worse fitness value. After
the improved sparrow search stage, we subsequently employ
a greedy search stage to increase spectral efficiency (line 35f,t
37). In this stage, we set zs,c
= 1 if constraint (16) still holds
f,t
after performing value mutation operation on zs,c
.
E. Complexity Analysis
1) Traditional Methods: To simplify analysis, we ignore the
influence of constraint terms in this part. The variable number
V of problem P1 , P2 , P3 and P4 are SC + SCBT + SCT ,
SC, SCBT and SCT , respectively. Referring to [35], the
complexity of traditional methods, i.e., solvers or branch
and bound methods, exponentially increases with numbers of
variable size, which can be expressed as O(2V ).
2) Our Proposal: In inter-satellite handover decision
algorithm (Algorithm 1), the maximum number of the first and
the second swap operations are C(C−1) and CS, respectively.
Due to S < C, the complexity of Algorithm 1 is O(N ′ C 2 ),
where N ′ is the maximum iteration number. The complexity
of beam hopping design algorithm (Algorithm 2) mainly relies
on checking the accessible state of vertices and their adjacent
vertices in all slots. The maximum number of vertices and their
adjacent vertices are BC and BC(BC − 1)/2, respectively.
Hence, the complexity of Algorithm 2 is O(T B 2 C 2 ). For
satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing algorithm (Algorithm 3),
the maximum number of iterations and the population size of
sparrows are N ′′ and Npop , respectively. In each iteration,
the numbers of the sparrow update and fitness calculation
operations are less than 2.5Npop . In addition, the number
of adaptive crossover operations is N ′′′ , and N ′′′ < Npop .
f,t
Moreover, the last greedy search step requires search all zs,c
and corresponding number is SB. Hence, the complexity
of Algorithm 3 is O(N ′′ Npop + SB). Based on the above
analysis, the complexity of the proposed beam management
approach is O(N ′ C 2 + T B 2 C 2 + N ′′ Npop ).
V. S IMULATION R ESULTS AND A NALYSIS
A. Simulation Parameters and Performance Metrics
To evaluate the performances of the proposed beam management approach, we conduct massive simulations in LEO
satellite network scenarios with 1200 LEO satellites, 20 earthfixed beam cells. Satellites are evenly distributed in 30 orbit
planes, whose inclination and altitude are 53◦ and 550 km,
respectively. Moreover, beam cells are generated in a rectangular area and arranged in four rows and five columns, where

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

5258

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 73, NO. 7, JULY 2025

Algorithm 3 Satellite-Terrestrial Spectrum Sharing Algorithm

TABLE II

f,t
1: Set zs,c
= 0 for all cells with an empty queue Q′c,f .
f,t
f
2: Input: xs,c , ys,c,b , the maximum number of iterations N ′′ , the

S IMULATION PARAMETER S ETTING

number of local search iterations N ′′′ , population size Npop ,
sparrow size Zs , the number of producers Pd , the number
of spectators Sd .
3: Initialize sparrow population by using tent chaotic strategy.
f,t
4: Obtain binary zs,c
based on (38) and record the global binary
optimal solution Sg and its fitness f (Sg ).
5: while i < N ′′ do
6:
Sort sparrows according to the descent order of fitness, find
the current best individual Sb .
7:
while j < N ′′′ do
8:
Sb′ = Sb .
9:
for j = 1 : 4 do
10:
Randomly select a elements sb in the best sparrow
Sb′ .
11:
sb = 1- sb .
12:
end for
f,t
13:
Obtain the binary solution zs,c
of Sb′ based on (38).
14:
Calculate fitness f (Sb′ ).
15:
if f (Sb′ ) > f (Sb ) then
16:
Sb = Sb′ .
17:
if f (Sb′ ) > f (Sg ) then
18:
Update global binary optimal solution Sg .
19:
f (Sg ) = f (Sb′ ).
20:
end if
21:
end if
22:
end while
0.1
23:
Calculate υ = 0.55 − 1+exp(5−10∗i/N
′′ )
24:
for j = Npop /2 + 1 : Npop do.
25:
if rand(1) < υ then
26:
Generate a randomly integer ζ in {1, 2, 3}.
27:
Randomly select ζ elements in sparrow j.
28:
For each selected element sj (ζ), we have sj (ζ) =
1 − sj (ζ).
29:
end if
30:
end for
31:
Update all sparrows’ location according to [33].
32:
Obtain the binary solution of all sparrow based on (38).
33:
If the fitness of new sparrows are better than f (Sg ), update
f (Sg ) and global binary optimal solution Sg .
34: end while
35: for i = 1 : Zs do
f,t
36:
Set the i-th zs,c
as 1 if constraint (16) can be met.
37: end for
f,t
38: Output: {zs,c
}.

each cell is hexagonal, and the inter-cell distance is 34.6 km.
The first beam cell locates at (30◦ E, 20◦ N ).
Referring to [36], several companies such as Telesat,
OneWeb, SpaceX, and Amazon have claimed that their satellites intend to use the Ka band (17.7-20.2 GHz) for downlink
transmission. Specifically, Starlink already has on-orbit LEO
satellites operating in the Ka band. Although current terrestrial
base stations do not use the Ka band, 3GPP has allocated
available frequency bands for terrestrial networks in the Ka
band and has discussed potential co-existence schemes for
satellite and terrestrial networks [37]. Therefore, LEO satellite
and terrestrial networks operate at 20 GHz in our simulations.
The bandwidth of LEO satellites and terrestrial networks
are 200 MHz and 100 MHz, respectively. Specifically, the
bandwidth of terrestrial cell center is 20 MHz. Moreover, two
orthogonal antenna polarization configurations are considered.

TABLE III
N ORMALIZED T RANSMISSION D EMAND A MONG B EAM C ELLS

Terrestrial users are handheld terminals with peak gain 0 dB,
and the antenna models of LEO satellites and satellite users
refer to [20] and [38], respectively. Under the given base
station clustering method described in Section II-B.3, the
number of base station cluster equals to beam cell number,
and their center locations are aligned with the centers of the
beam cells. Transmission load ljf of base station clusters are
randomly generated in [0.4, 0.6]. The channel model adopts
the model in 3GPP 38.811 [38].
Referring to [20] and [21], we set the INR threshold Igth to −10 dB for satellite-terrestrial scenarios to
mitigate inter-network interference. Considering that the
acceptable intra-network interference is generally higher than
inter-network interference cases, we set the inter-beam INR
threshold Isth to -5 dB. Here, the minimum elevation angle
between LEO satellites and satellite users is 35◦ . To simplify
simulations, all beam cells are consistently served by two
satellites with the longest service time, and target SNR of
all beam cells is set to 12 dB. There are 200 time slots
per epoch with a duration of 200 ms, and simulations last
66.67 minutes for evaluating long-term beam management
performances. The tolerable maximum inter-satellite handover
frequency threshold H is set to 0.004. Main parameters and the
normalized average demand among beam cells are summarized
in Table II and III, respectively.

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

ZHU et al.: BEAM MANAGEMENT IN LOW EARTH ORBIT SATELLITE COMMUNICATION

5259

Fig. 6. The figures are the results of the performance of beam hopping design algorithms, where (a) presents the original objective value of problem P o ,
(b) is the result of average data queue length of beam cells, and (c) shows the average inter-satellite handover frequency of all beam cells.

Fig. 7. The figures are the results of the performance of inter-satellite handover decision algorithms, where (a) presents the objective value of problem P o ,
(b) is the result of average data queue length of beam cells, and (c) shows the average inter-satellite handover frequency of all beam cells.

Fig. 8. The figures are the results of the performance of satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing algorithms, where (a) presents the objective value of problem
P o , (b) is the result of average data queue length of beam cells, and (c) shows the average inter-satellite handover frequency of all beam cells.

The performance metrics include queue length, intersatellite handover frequency, objective value of problem
P0 , and delay. To succinctly characterize the performance
algorithms over time in figures, we take the average
for queue length, handover frequency, and delay metrics
among all cells. Moreover, the average delay is calculated by dividing the average queue length by the network
transmission rate. In addition, the location information of
constructed LEO satellite networks is obtained by AGI
Systems Tool Kit [39]. Specifically, all algorithms are
executed on a simulation platform with Intel Core i713700KF processor and 96 GB of memory, and MOSEK
solver is used to solve the problem P3 for a benchmark
scheme.

B. The Performance Comparisons With Existing Methods
In this part, we first evaluate the performance of the proposed beam hopping design algorithm. Here, three baselines
are considered as follows.
• Greedy scheme: The gateway station greedily allocates
serving beams to cells with large data queue [40].
• MOSEK+Greedy: The beam hopping design is obtained
based on MOSEK solver and greedy search step in [5].
• Swap matching: In this scheme, the initial beam hopping
decision is obtained by greedy scheme, and then the
serving beams of two cells will be continuously swapped
if a swap operation can reduce the objective function
value of problem P3 [13].

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

5260

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 73, NO. 7, JULY 2025

Fig. 9. The figures display the performance results of average delay, where (a) compares different beam hopping algorithms, (b) is the result of inter-satellite
handover schemes, and (c) presents the comparisons between dynamic spectrum sharing algorithms.

TABLE IV
T HE C OMPARISON OF THE AVERAGE E XECUTION T IME
OF B EAM H OPPING A LGORITHMS

Considering that the substantial computational complexity
of the baseline based on MOSEK solver, the number of beams
per satellite is set to 4, and resource utilization rate threshold
σ0 is set to 0.9. The average sum of arrival data rate of all
beam cells is 6.52 Gbps and V = 100. In Fig. 6 (a) and (b),
it can be seen that the beam hopping design algorithm based on
MOSEK solver and greedy search achieves the highest spectral
efficiency. However, computational complexity is a core factor
for practical applications. Due to exponential complexity of
MOSEK solver [35], it is hard to be deployed in practical LEO
satellite networks. Since LEO satellites have excellent spatial
isolation in the first 3000 epochs, the performance curves of
our proposal and greedy algorithm are tightly close to each
other. With interference situations exacerbating, our proposal
can reduce the average data queue length and the objective
value of problem P0 by 13.43% and 30.68% compared with
swap matching algorithm at the 20000-th epoch, respectively.
Moreover, as shown in Fig. 6 (c), the beam hopping design outputted by the baseline based on the MOSEK solver and greedy
search violates inter-satellite handover frequency constraint,
whereas our proposal satisfies this constraint and achieves the
minimum handover frequency.
The comparison of the average execution time of beam
hopping algorithms is shown in Table. IV. It can be observed
that the proposed beam hopping algorithm achieves the lowest
execution time. Specifically, compared to the baseline based
on MOSEK solver, our proposal reduces the average execution
time by two orders of magnitude. Moreover, it only requires an
average of 46.58 ms to make beam hopping decisions, which
is significantly shorter than the duration of a scheduling epoch.
Therefore, our proposal with low complexity is more suitable
for practical LEO satellite networks.
Then, we evaluate the performance of the proposed
inter-satellite handover decision algorithm, where three benchmark schemes are adopted as follows.
• Load Balance: The visible satellite with the minimum
traffic load is allocated to beam cells [5].

Fig. 10. The performance result of the static spectrum sharing strategy
between LEO satellite networks and terrestrial networks.

• Entropy: Inter-satellite handover procedure is implemented by a multi-attribute handover decision scheme
based on entropy in [11].
• Cell clustering: Cells are distributed across satellites
while maximizing sufficient geographical separation
between cells [41].
Specifically, inter-satellite handover procedures of benchmark
schemes are only triggered when network topology changes.
For a fair comparison, benchmark schemes and our proposal
adopt the proposed beam hopping deign algorithm to formulate
beam hopping design, and satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing
operations are ignored in this stage. In addition, the number
of beams per satellite is set to 8, and resource utilization
rate threshold σ0 is set to 0.6 due to increased inter-beam
interference. The average sum of arrival data rate of all beam
cells is 10.57 Gbps and V = 100. Since LEO satellites
can serve beam cells within a long duration, random traffic
arrival of cells leads to load imbalance among satellites.
A short data queue length level means that LEO satellites
have the capacity to transmit more data under the given
spectrum resource. Fig. 7 (a) and (b) illustrate that our proposal
surpasses benchmark schemes. Specifically, the objective value
of problem P o and average beam cell data queue length
of our proposal are reduced 76.18% and 49.45% compared
with cell clustering strategy, which demonstrates that LEO
satellite networks proactively trigger inter-satellite handover
procedure contributing to high spectral efficiency. As shown
in Fig. 7 (c), our proposal obtains a better performance at the

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

ZHU et al.: BEAM MANAGEMENT IN LOW EARTH ORBIT SATELLITE COMMUNICATION

5261

Fig. 11. The performance of our proposal under different the average sum of arrival data rate, where (a) presents the original objective value of problem
P o , (b) is the result of average data queue length of beam cells, and (c) shows the average inter-satellite handover frequency of all beam cells.

cost of handover frequency. Remarkably, our proposal satisfies
inter-satellite handover frequency constraint.
Later on, we present the performance evaluation result of
the dynamic satellite-terrestrial spectrum sharing algorithm of
spot beams, where the average sum of arrival data rate of all
beam cells is 11.871 Gbps and V = 100, and three baselines
are considered.
f,t
=
• Greedy scheme: The gateway station greedily sets zs,c
1 for beam cells with large data queue lengths [40].
• GA: Problem P 4 is solved by genetic algorithm [42].
• BWO: Problem P 4 is solved by binary whale optimization algorithm in [43].

Fig. 8 (a) illustrates the performance comparison result of the
concerned objective value of problem P o . It can be seen that
our proposal outperforms baselines and obtains a high service
satisfaction. As shown in Fig. 8 (b), our proposal reduces
the average data queue length by over 23% compared with
benchmark schemes. Fig. 8 (c) presents the result of average
inter-satellite handover frequency. Specifically, our proposal
satisfies the inter-satellite handover frequency constraint and
achieves the minimum handover frequency at the 20000th epoch. Hence, the proposed satellite-terrestrial spectrum
sharing algorithm can significantly improve spectral efficiency.
Subsequently, the average delay comparisons between our
proposal and benchmark schemes are shown in Fig. 9. It can
be observed that the trends of average delay closely align with
those of average queue lengths. Specifically, compared to the
inter-satellite handover scheme based on cell clustering, our
proposal can reduce the average delay by over 50%, which
verifies that our proposal can significantly improve the quality
of services.
Finally, the performance result of the proposed static spectrum sharing mechanism between wide beams and terrestrial
networks is illustrated in Fig. 10. In simulations, 32400 terrestrial cells are considered, and the radius of terrestrial
cell is set to 500 m. Moreover, the area of a cell center
occupies 1/3 of the total area of a terrestrial cell. When
satellite users are located 1 km away from the nearest base
station, our proposal achieves comparable SINR performance
to that of terrestrial cell edge users, which can meet the
requirements for satellite-ground communications. Moreover,
the satellite-terrestrial interference under our proposal is

Fig. 12.
The performance of our proposal under different V , where
(a) shows the average inter-satellite handover frequency of all beam cells,
and (b) presents the objective value of problem P o .

effectively constrained and maintained at an acceptable level
for both terrestrial and satellite networks [20], [21].
C. Performance Validation of the Proposed Method
Subsequently, we evaluate the performance of the proposed
beam management approach under different arrival data rates,
and set V = 100. In Fig. 11 (a) and (b), we can reasonably
conclude that our proposal can stabilize the data queue of
beam cells when the arrival date rate is less than 10.99 Gbps.
Hence, simulation results prove that our proposal can achieve
high spectral efficiency with low computational complexity.
In addition, with the network load increasing, the average
inter-satellite handover frequency slightly declines. This is
because a heavy network load usually leads to a high resource
utilization rate, which lowers the invoking frequency of the
proposed inter-satellite handover decision algorithm.
Finally, we investigate the influence of parameter V on
inter-satellite handover frequency and objective value of problem P o . Moreover, we ignore satellite-terrestrial spectrum
sharing operations, and we set the network to operate under
full buffer condition. According to Fig. 12, it can be observed
that a larger V corresponds to a higher inter-satellite handover
frequency. The reason for this phenomenon is that a large V
forces the LEO satellite networks to pay more attention to
control load distributions among satellites, whereas the effect
of handover frequency constraint becomes weakened.
VI. C ONCLUSION
For a high service satisfaction with low inter-satellite
handover frequency, this article has studied the long-term

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

5262

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS, VOL. 73, NO. 7, JULY 2025

beam management approach for LEO satellite networks with
dynamic topology, time-varying loads and complex interbeam/satellite-terrestrial interference. To overcome the issue
caused by complex interference situations, we first proposed
interference mitigation strategies to simplify interference analysis and support spectrum sharing. Since the concerned beam
management problem considers long-term service satisfaction
and inter-satellite handover frequency constraints, we adopted
Lyapunov drift to transform the primal problem into a series
of per-epoch problems. Considering that the transformed problem was NP-hard, we have further decomposed it into three
subproblems, including inter-satellite handover decision problem, beam hopping design problem, and satellite-terrestrial
spectrum sharing problem. Subsequently, conditional handover
triggering mechanism and inter-satellite handover algorithm
have been designed to control the handover frequency and
load distributions among LEO satellites. Based on the proposed interference mitigation strategies, we have designed
low-complexity beam hopping design and satellite-terrestrial
spectrum sharing algorithms, contributing to high service satisfaction and spectral efficiency. Finally, the simulation results
have verified that the proposed beam management approach
achieved a better average data queue length, average delay,
and service satisfaction than benchmark schemes. Meanwhile,
our proposal satisfied the maximum inter-satellite handover
frequency constraints. However, since our proposal is a heuristic approach, the accurate optimality gap between the original
problem and the decomposed problem will be conducted in
our future work.
R EFERENCES
[1] A. Ivanov, R. Bychkov, and E. Tcatcorin, “Spatial resource management in LEO satellite,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 69, no. 12,
pp. 15623–15632, Dec. 2020.
[2] M. Vaezi et al., “Cellular, wide-area, and non-terrestrial IoT: A survey
on 5G advances and the road toward 6G,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts.,
vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 1117–1174, 2nd Quart., 2022.
[3] J. Zhu, Y. Sun, and M. Peng, “Timing advance estimation in low Earth
orbit satellite networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 73, no. 3,
pp. 4366–4382, Mar. 2024.
[4] F. Wang, D. Jiang, Z. Wang, J. Chen, and T. Q. S. Quek, “Seamless
handover in LEO based non-terrestrial networks: Service continuity and
optimization,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 71, no. 2, pp. 1008–1023,
Feb. 2023.
[5] Z. Lin, Z. Ni, L. Kuang, C. Jiang, and Z. Huang, “Multi-satellite beam
hopping based on load balancing and interference avoidance for NGSO
satellite communication systems,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 71, no. 1,
pp. 282–295, Jan. 2023.
[6] S. Kim, E. Visotsky, P. Moorut, K. Bechta, A. Ghosh, and C. Dietrich,
“Coexistence of 5G with the incumbents in the 28 and 70 GHz
bands,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 35, no. 6, pp. 1254–1268,
Jun. 2017.
[7] B. Yang, Y. Wu, X. Chu, and G. Song, “Seamless handover in softwaredefined satellite networking,” IEEE Commun. Lett., vol. 20, no. 9,
pp. 1768–1771, Sep. 2016.
[8] Z. Wu, F. Jin, J. Luo, Y. Fu, J. Shan, and G. Hu, “A graph-based satellite
handover framework for LEO satellite communication networks,” IEEE
Commun. Lett., vol. 20, no. 8, pp. 1547–1550, Aug. 2016.
[9] A. Al-Hourani, “Session duration between handovers in dense LEO
satellite networks,” IEEE Wireless Commun. Lett., vol. 10, no. 12,
pp. 2810–2814, Dec. 2021.
[10] L. Feng, Y. Liu, L. Wu, Z. Zhang, and J. Dang, “A satellite handover
strategy based on MIMO technology in LEO satellite networks,” IEEE
Commun. Lett., vol. 24, no. 7, pp. 1505–1509, Jul. 2020.

[11] S. Zhang, A. Liu, and X. Liang, “A multi-objective satellite handover
strategy based on entropy in Leo satellite communications,” in Proc.
IEEE 6th Int. Conf. Comput. Commun. (ICCC), Chengdu, China,
Feb. 2020, pp. 723–728.
[12] S. Zhang, A. Liu, C. Han, X. Ding, and X. Liang, “A network-flowsbased satellite handover strategy for LEO satellite networks,” IEEE
Wireless Commun. Lett., vol. 10, no. 12, pp. 2669–2673, Dec. 2021.
[13] A. Wang, L. Lei, E. Lagunas, A. I. Pérez-Neira, S. Chatzinotas, and
B. Ottersten, “Joint optimization of beam-hopping design and NOMAassisted transmission for flexible satellite systems,” IEEE Trans. Wireless
Commun., vol. 21, no. 10, pp. 8846–8858, Oct. 2022.
[14] C. Zhang, X. Zhao, and G. Zhang, “Joint precoding schemes for flexible
resource allocation in high throughput satellite systems based on beam
hopping,” China Commun., vol. 18, no. 9, pp. 48–61, Sep. 2021.
[15] T. Li, R. Yao, Y. Fan, X. Zuo, and L. Jiang, “Multiobjective optimization
for beam hopping and power allocation in dual satellite cooperative
transmission networks,” IEEE Syst. J., vol. 17, no. 3, pp. 3870–3881,
Sep. 2023, doi: 10.1109/JSYST.2023.3269442.
[16] C. Zhang, C. Jiang, L. Kuang, J. Jin, Y. He, and Z. Han, “Spatial
spectrum sharing for satellite and terrestrial communication networks,”
IEEE Trans. Aerosp. Electron. Syst., vol. 55, no. 3, pp. 1075–1089,
Jun. 2019.
[17] J. Du, C. Jiang, H. Zhang, Y. Ren, and M. Guizani, “Auction design and
analysis for SDN-based traffic offloading in hybrid satellite-terrestrial
networks,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 36, no. 10, pp. 2202–2217,
Oct. 2018.
[18] Y. Zhang, H. Zhang, H. Zhou, K. Long, and G. K. Karagiannidis,
“Resource allocation in terrestrial-satellite-based next generation multiple access networks with interference cooperation,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas
Commun., vol. 40, no. 4, pp. 1210–1221, Apr. 2022.
[19] S. Chen, S. Sun, D. Miao, T. Shi, and Y. Cui, “The trends, challenges and
key technologies of beam-space multiplexing in the integrated terrestrialsatellite communication for B5G and 6G,” IEEE Wireless Commun.,
vol. 30, no. 6, pp. 77–86, Dec. 2022, doi: 10.1109/MWC.004.2200085.
[20] SpaceX. SpaceX Analysis of the Effect of Terrestrial Mobile Deployment
on NGSO FSS Downlink Operations. Accessed: Dec. 12, 2024. [Online].
Available: https://www.starlink.com/updates
[21] RKF Engineering Solutions. Assessment of Feasibility of Coexistence
Between NGSO FSS Earth Stations and 5G Operations in the 12.2–
12.7 GHz Band. Accessed: Dec. 12, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://
5gfor12ghz.com/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/AS-FILED-Comments-ofRS-Access-Apx.-A-RKF-Engineering-Technical-Study-5.7.21.pdf
[22] Study on New Radio Access Technology Physical Layer Aspects,
document 38.802, 3GPP, Sophia Antipolis, France, 2017.
[23] C. Yao, C. Yang, and Z. Xiong, “Energy-saving predictive resource
planning and allocation,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 64, no. 12,
pp. 5078–5095, Dec. 2016.
[24] X. Wang, B. Lyu, C. Guo, J. Xu, and M. Zukerman, “A base station
sleeping strategy in heterogeneous cellular networks based on user
traffic prediction,” IEEE Trans. Green Commun. Netw., vol. 8, no. 1,
pp. 134–149, Mar. 2024, doi: 10.1109/TGCN.2023.3324486.
[25] L. Feng, A. Ali, M. Iqbal, A. K. Bashir, S. A. Hussain, and S. Pack,
“Optimal haptic communications over nanonetworks for E-health systems,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 15, no. 5, pp. 3016–3027,
May 2019.
[26] Y. Zhang, C. Li, T. H. Luan, Y. Fu, W. Shi, and L. Zhu, “A mobilityaware vehicular caching scheme in content centric networks: Model and
optimization,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 68, no. 4, pp. 3100–3112,
Apr. 2019.
[27] M. J. Neely, “Energy optimal control for time-varying wireless networks,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 52, no. 7, pp. 2915–2934,
Jul. 2006.
[28] X. Ying, M. M. Buddhikot, and S. Roy, “SAS-assisted coexistence-aware
dynamic channel assignment in CBRS band,” IEEE Trans. Wireless
Commun., vol. 17, no. 9, pp. 6307–6320, Sep. 2018.
[29] J. Vondrak, “Optimal approximation for the submodular welfare problem
in the value Oracle model,” in Proc. 40th Annu. ACM Symp. Theory
Comput., May 2008, pp. 67–74.
[30] T. Deng, X. Liu, H. Zhou, and V. C. M. Leung, “Global resource allocation for high throughput and low delay in high-density VANETs,” IEEE
Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 21, no. 11, pp. 9509–9518, Nov. 2022.
[31] Z. Zhao, G. Verma, C. Rao, A. Swami, and S. Segarra, “Link scheduling
using graph neural networks,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 22,
no. 6, pp. 3997–4012, Jun. 2023.

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

ZHU et al.: BEAM MANAGEMENT IN LOW EARTH ORBIT SATELLITE COMMUNICATION

[32] J. Zhu, Y. Sun, and M. Peng, “Beam management in low Earth orbit
satellite networks with random traffic arrival and time-varying topology,”
IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 73, no. 9, pp. 13352–13367, Sep. 2024.
[33] W. Yu, H. Kang, G. Sun, S. Liang, and J. Li, “Bio-inspired feature
selection in brain disease detection via an improved sparrow search
algorithm,” IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 72, pp. 1–15, 2023.
[34] A. G. Gad, K. M. Sallam, R. K. Chakrabortty, M. J. Ryan, and
A. A. Abohany, “An improved binary sparrow search algorithm for
feature selection in data classification,” Neural Comput. Appl., vol. 34,
no. 18, pp. 15705–15752, Sep. 2022.
[35] E. E. Haber, T. M. Nguyen, and C. Assi, “Joint optimization of
computational cost and devices energy for task offloading in multi-tier
edge-clouds,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 67, no. 5, pp. 3407–3421,
May 2019.
[36] N. Pachler, I. del Portillo, E. F. Crawley, and B. G. Cameron,
“An updated comparison of four low earth orbit satellite constellation
systems to provide global broadband,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Commun.
Workshops (ICC Workshops), Montreal, QC, Canada, Jun. 2021, pp. 1–7.
[37] Solutions for NR to Support Non-Terrestrial Networks (NTN): NonTerrestrial Networks (NTN) Related RF and Co-existence Aspects,
document 38.863, 3GPP, Sophia Antipolis, France, 2024.
[38] Study on New Radio (NR) to Support Non Terrestrial Networks,
document 38.811, 3GPP, Sophia Antipolis, France, 2020.
[39] S. Yuan, Y. Sun, and M. Peng, “Joint network function placement
and routing optimization in dynamic software-defined satellite-terrestrial
integrated networks,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 23, no. 5,
pp. 5172–5186, May 2024.
[40] J. Zhang et al., “System-level evaluation of beam hopping in NR-based
LEO satellite communication system,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless Commun.
Netw. Conf. (WCNC), Glasgow, U.K., Mar. 2023, pp. 1–6.
[41] N. Pachler, E. F. Crawley, and B. G. Cameron, “Avoiding selfinterference in megaconstellations through cooperative satellite routing
and frequency assignment,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 42, no. 11,
pp. 3188–3203, Nov. 2024, doi: 10.1109/JSAC.2024.3431571.
[42] L. Wang, X. Hu, S. Ma, S. Xu, and W. Wang, “Dynamic beam
hopping of multi-beam satellite based on genetic algorithm,” in
Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Parallel Distrib. Process. Appl., Big Data
Cloud Comput., Sustain. Comput. Commun., Social Comput. Netw.
(ISPA/BDCloud/SocialCom/SustainCom), Exeter, U.K., Dec. 2020,
pp. 1364–1370.
[43] Q.-V. Pham, S. Mirjalili, N. Kumar, M. Alazab, and W.-J. Hwang,
“Whale optimization algorithm with applications to resource allocation
in wireless networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 69, no. 4,
pp. 4285–4297, Apr. 2020.

Jianfeng Zhu received the bachelor’s degree in
information and communication engineering from
Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications (BUPT), Beijing, China, in 2019, where he
is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the
State Key Laboratory of Networking and Switching
Technology. His research interests include random
access, beam management, mobility management,
and spectrum sharing in LEO satellite communications and mega-constellation networks.

5263

Yaohua Sun received the bachelor’s degree (Hons.)
in telecommunications engineering (with management) and the Ph.D. degree in communication
engineering from Beijing University of Posts and
Telecommunications (BUPT), Beijing, China, in
2014 and 2019, respectively.
He is currently an Associate Professor with the
School of Information and Communication Engineering, BUPT. He has published over 30 papers,
including three ESI highly cited papers. His research
interests include intelligent radio access networks
and LEO satellite communication. He has been a reviewer of IEEE T RANS ACTIONS ON C OMMUNICATIONS and IEEE T RANSACTIONS ON M OBILE
C OMPUTING.

Mugen Peng received the Ph.D. degree in communication and information systems from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications (BUPT),
Beijing, China, in 2005. In 2014, he was an Academic Visiting Fellow with Princeton University,
Princeton, NJ, USA. He joined BUPT, where he
has been the Dean of the School of Information
and Communication Engineering since June 2020,
and the Deputy Director of the State Key Laboratory of Networking and Switching Technology
since October 2018. He currently leads the Research
Group focusing on wireless transmission and networking technologies with
the State Key Laboratory of Networking and Switching Technology, BUPT.
His main research interests include wireless communication theory, radio
signal processing, cooperative communication, self-organization networking,
non-terrestrial networks, and the Internet of Things. He was a recipient of
the 2018 Heinrich Hertz Prize Paper Award, the 2014 IEEE ComSoc AP
Outstanding Young Researcher Award, and the Best Paper Award from IEEE
ICC 2022, JCN 2016, and IEEE WCNC 2015. He is/was on the editorial or
associate editorial board of IEEE Communications Magazine, IEEE Network,
IEEE I NTERNET OF T HINGS J OURNAL, IEEE T RANSACTIONS ON V EHIC ULAR T ECHNOLOGY , and IEEE T RANSACTIONS ON N ETWORK S CIENCE
AND E NGINEERING .

Authorized licensed use limited to: National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on December 12,2025 at 10:53:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

